Heading: jubilee general insurance standard chartered bank pakistan limited distribution agr

Article: KARACH: Jubilee General Insurance (JGI) signed an agreement with Standard Chartered Bank Pakistan Limited (SCBPL) to provide General Insurance products to SCBPL  clients across Pakistan. The signing ceremony marked the beginning of this new alliance. The first product to be officially launched as a result of this alliance will be Critical Illness Plus designed especially for SCBPL clients with the mission to spread awareness about the lifestyle and financial impacts of a critical illness. The event highlighted the insurance options available to help protect against  unexpected expenses encountered during a major health condition. Moreover, the product offers the insured, his / her spouse and children the benefit of International Medical Second Opinion, which allows them access to over 100 world leading medical centers for 200 qualifying medical conditions.  JGI, one of Pakistan’s largest insurer, is a major General insurance provider with a number of key bank relationships in Pakistan. JGI’s sound financial position & service commitment will benefit SCBPL’s clients with world-class insurance coverage and service through new and inventive distribution channels. SCBPL is the leading international bank operating in Pakistan, recently accorded as the Best Foreign Bank by Finance Asia. The bank’s client base and extensive distribution network throughout Pakistan offer the opportunity for significant insurance penetration within the country.Speaking on the occasion, Mr. Tahir Ahmed, Managing Director, JGI, said: “We strongly believe that personal insurance products have the power to maintain and enhance the lifestyle of individuals. Therefore, Jubilee General is obliged to provide personal products to each and every Pakistani.The SCBPL resources strive to help raise awareness about the health and financial risks of a critical illness, such as cancer, heart attack or stroke etc. with the support of Jubilee General Team.I am glad to see that the staff of SCBPL is fully equipped with the product information and other insurance aspects related to this product.”Mr. Shazad Dada, CEO, SCBPL, added “We are extremely pleased to launch another enhancement to our insurance product suite for Retail Clients. SC in conjunction with our product partners has embarked on a journey to educate clients on the importance of coverage and offer them the most viable insurance options. Our ultimate aim is to continuously evaluate our client needs and leverage our strong alliances to refine our overall wealth proposition. This agreement is a good example of Standard Chartered living up to its brand promise, Here for good, and reflects our ongoing commitment towards bringing new and innovative client solutions to the market.”

Date: 7/9/2015
NewsType: business