Heading: us firm to set up 6000mw gas based power 

Article: ISLAMABAD: Federal Minister for Water and Power Khawaja Asif has welcomed the US Company, American Ethane for showing its deep interest in setting up three gas-based power plants, producing 2,000MW each, in Pakistan. Speaking to a delegation of American Ethane, led by, Prime Minister’s Special Envoy for Overseas Investment Ambassador Javed Malik, here on Tuesday, Asif said that the new power policy and power generation policies have been improved to facilitate the investment in the energy sector. “After the introduction of revolutionary reforms in power policy the private sector can now establish their own transmission line,” said the minister. “The government of Pakistan will purchase it,” he added.  Khawaja Asif said that a large number of private sector energy projects are already at different stages in the China Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC).He said that keeping in view the number of projects that are planned in the energy sector overall, economic activities were also gearing up and the country’s economic indicators were improving fast.The minister assured the American delegation that all facilities will be extended to them by his ministry and its institutions. He said that special instructions have already been passed by the ministry to the Private Power infrastructure Board in this regard. The water & power minister lauded Ambassador Javed Malik for his efforts in bringing in valuable investment in the country. He said that Ambassador Malik’s services were known to all Pakistanis living abroad and he was an important link between their homeland and the country of their work. Secretary Ministry of Water and Power Mohammad Younus Dagha briefed the delegation about the features of the new power policy and assured them that an all out support will be extended to the company. Other members of the delegation included John Teter, Michael Hood, Walter Teter and Alex Domakhin.

Date: 6/16/2015
NewsType: business