Heading: Van Meekeren seals Netherlands sign off victory

Article: DHARAMSALA: Netherland defeated Ireland in a dead rubber curtailed by rain to six-overs-a-side World Twenty qualifiers Group A match here on Sunday.Netherland after sent into bat, made 59 for five in six overs and later restricted Ireland to 47 for seven to win the match by 12 runs.There was snow on the mountain tops in Himachal Pradesh, if the drizzle had cleared the temperatures were plunging and Ireland felt the chill as once they were again tormented by the side in orange.The orange flash at deep midwicket that sparkled most brightly of all came 14 balls into Ireland's pursuit of 60 and belonged to Pieter Seelaar as he sprinted along the midwicket boundary before clinging to a slick diving catch.Paul van Meekeren banged the ball in back of a length, Kevin O'Brien's pull was middled, but the shot that might have broken the run chase (had it gone for six Ireland would have been 34 for 1 after 14 balls) was instead the harbinger of Ireland's growing despondency.As for van Meekeren, a return of 4 for 11 will awaken a little interest, one suspects, in English county cricket. By the time he began the final over, Ireland were still 20 short, and he demolished the stumps of Max Sorensen and George Dockrell to ensure there was no monkey business.Both sides were already eliminated but Netherlands were happy to get the consolation win..Only one Ireland player was allowed to bowl two overs and Dockrell's left-arm spin proved to be a wise choice, registering 3 for 7, and producing catching opportunities from three of his first five balls, two of which were taken. Seven dot balls out of 12, including an over in the Powerplay, was an astounding effort that might have brought victory.Dockrell found turn all the same as Netherlands' batsmen floundered against him. Tom Cooper slogged his third ball to mid-on, affording the opportunity to prey upon Roelof van der Merwe who was promoted to No. 3.It did not work out for van der Merwe. Twice, he slogged Dockrell's left-arm spin to the legside. Kevin O'Brien spilled the first - a slice to long-off and a grimace from O'Brien as he landed heavily, but van der Merwe's next attempt was entirely bungled and he fell off the cue end at short third man.The coup de grace came in Dockrell's second over when his turn outdid Wesley Barresi as he came down the pitch, leaving Niall O'Brien with a simple stumping.Stephan Myburgh was dropped on 9 by Paul Stirling at deep midwicket but was still restrict to 27 from 18 balls. When he was run out against the penultimate ball, the damage had been limited. Dockrell bowled only one ball at him - the first ball of his spell - and got away with a leg bye off his waist.Stirling addressed Ireland's chase when he twice walked across his stumps in Tim van der Gugten's first over to flick him over fine leg for six. But Seelaar's thrilling intervention changed the complexion of the game and Stirling fell to the next ball, his ramp shot was collected at third man.At 28.3 off 2.3, Ireland had opportunity even in a six-over game for a settling period, but their plight worsened when Gary Wilson and Stuart Poynter departed against van der Merwe within three balls - Wilson falling to a reverse sweep, Poynton skying a rustic slog.With 25 needed from two, and only five wickets remaining, Netherlands were suddenly favourites. A fine penultimate over from Mudassar Bukhari meant 20 were needed off the last. They never got close.

Date: 3/13/2016
NewsType: sports