Heading: Foodpanda Yayvo come together for the most prodigious Black Friday sale ever

Article: After the success of its ‘Great Online Shopping Festival (GOSF)’ in September, Yayvo is all set to launch their first Black Friday sale, which they claim to be nothing less than the biggest shopping extravaganza in Pakistan. There will be discounts of up to 80% on over 1,000 products; exclusive brand launches; cost-effective deals backed by immediate (within 120 minutes) nationwide delivery through the TCS logistics network.To add new flavors to their Black Friday, Yayvo.com has entered into a strategic partnership with foodpandaas their exclusive food partner. With an aim to lead Pakistan’s US$ 600 million E-Commerce market together, both the e-commerce giants joined hands to give their customers the most holistic proposition - drool worthy deals and jaw-dropping discounts on food, alongside techy gadgets, beauty products and other household items.In a formal alliance ceremony on 16th November 2016, taking pride in initiating the partnership, Marketing Manager foodpanda, Omair Baksh said,“Foodpanda is always on the lookout to provide great value for customers. In this same spirit we have partnered up with Yayvo for the upcoming Black Friday event. Through this partnership we aim to bring exceptional discounts for existing customers of foodpanda and Yayvo, and at the same time introduce new customers to the e-commerce space in Pakistan".Reflecting upon the whole idea behind the alliance, Head of Yayvo, Adam Dawood said,  “a Partnership between Yayvo and FoodPanda is a natural alliance. Both our companies are focused on getting deliveries to our customers in the fastest possible time whether it be a piping hot pizza, or the hottest new phone. This collaboration marks a further cementing of e-commerce players who are working together to grow the overall online customer pie (pun intended)”During the ceremony, foodpanda announced exciting deals and premium discounts on the top restaurants in all major cities of Pakistan. Big and small, all prominent names in the food industry are expected to come onboard with exclusive Black Friday deals and discounts to make #YayvoBlackFriday the most exciting ever. We also found out that random customers will be surprised with special foodpanda discount vouchers with their orders during the sale.So, get set to charge yourself up with your favourite food on insanely discounted prices with foodpanda while you browse through more than 1000 on-sale products on Pakistan’s most prodigious Black Friday sale ever!strong>About foodpanda</strongfoodpanda is a global mobile food delivery marketplace headquartered in Berlin, Germany, and operating in 24 countries and territories. The service allows users to select from local restaurants and place orders via its mobile application as well as the website. The company has partnered with over 40,000 restaurants. foodpanda is one of the fastest growing e-commerce businesses in Pakistan; recently the online giant achieved a truly extraordinary milestone in record time when it reached PKR 1 billion in revenue generation.strong>About Yayvo</strong><br/>Yayvo.com, backed by TCS E-COM (Pvt.) Ltd., is one of the leading e-commerce players in Pakistan, offering an exciting online shopping experience with a promise of reliability and speed. With an unparalleled assortment of leading brands offering Electronics, Mobile Phones, Beauty products, and other Lifestyle options, they aim to provide shoppers with the ease to choose from an infinite range.

Date: 11/17/2016
NewsType: business