Heading: Mobile phones Step towards a connected futur

Article: The advent of mobile and smartphone technology has transformed the dynamics of communication in Pakistan. The adoption rates for smartphones are growing rapidly in both urban and rural centers. In 2015, 31% of mobiles purchased in the country were smartphones. Pakistan has approximately 80% mobile user penetration. These mobile phones have become so common that they are not considered a luxury device anymore but rather, an item of necessity. This technology has the potential to solve various day-to-day problems and the ability to lift people out of poverty. In fact, in the life of every individual, a mobile phone plays a critical role.   The reason behind a common man owning a phone can be attributed to price affordability and availability of quality smartphones within the reach of the masses. There are some big names is Pakistan’s smartphone market, but the role which Q Mobile has played for equipping the masses with mobile and smartphones has to be applauded. Q Mobile, which is the largest smartphone brand in Pakistan and enjoys a lion's share in the smartphone market, provides various kinds of phones such as smartphones, feature phones and tablets. It is clearly evident that, from a shopkeeper to a businessman, Q Mobile serves all Socio - Economic Classes.Once upon a time, these phones were used to send a message or receive a call but now, with all telecom operators providing affordable data services, the use of smartphones takes a completely new level of information.We now have access to mobile payment solutions, where we can send or receive money from distant areas within a fraction of seconds. We can shop online and pay via our mobile phones, connect with our loved ones living abroad via video calling, social networking and staying ever connected with all the news from around the world.Very soon, our farmers will check the daily commodity rate or inquire about delivery to the market. Long distance route truck drivers, who transport goods, can use online maps and GPS to plan their routes. Traders in the rural areas can narrow the gap with their buyers and sellers in urban areas by using mobile broadband. Health related services are also available via smartphones. A recent study by the Santa Fe Institute theorizes that cell phone use could help developing countries plan electrical infrastructure.With so much developments taking place, smartphones clearly represent a growing segment of our economy and are an example of how the availability of technology can propel Pakistan in the global marketplace while improving the lives of a common man at the same time.

Date: 5/29/2016
NewsType: business