Heading: SPB introduces modern means ensure new currency notes Eid Paki

Article: strong>ISLAMABAD: Taking full advantage of innovations, State Bank of Pakistan (SBP) has introduced SMS service to facilitate people in acquiring new currency notes to celebrate Eid-ul-Fitr.</strongAs part of steps taken to provide citizens with new currency notes, especially with Eid holidays, this facility will be provided through 500 E-branches in 116 cities during Ramazan.According to information, the aspirants of fresh currency notes need to type CNIC number&lt;space&gt;e-branch ID and send it as an SMS to 8877. Charges of sending an SMS to 8877 are Rs. 2 (plus tax).In reply to SMS, the customer will get their redemption code, e-branch address and redemption code validity date. The redemption code will be valid for two working days.Once the aspirants receive the code, they can visit the concerned E-branch along with their original CNIC card, its photocopy and the redemption code received from 8877 to acquire new notes.It may be noted that in order to avoid an abuse of the system, SBP has allotted a quota of new notes which will be granted to each person. This quota consists of two packets of Rs. 10, one packet of Rs.20, one packet of Rs. 50 (subject to availability) and one package of Rs. 100 (subject to availability).Under the SMS service, each CNIC number and mobile phone number can only be used once. No transaction code will be issued to senders if they send same CNIC/smart card number from different mobile numbers or addresses.A help desk has also been established at 111-008-877 to entertain queries/complaints of general public. The help desk can be contacted through NWD code of: 042 for Punjab, 021 for Sindh and Balochistan, 051 for Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa, Azad Kashmir, and Gilgit-Baltistan.The help desk facility will only be available during office hours.It is expected that the start of SMS service will facilitate public in acquiring new currency notes for Eid-ul-Fitr in a timely and hassle-free manner.

Date: 6/13/2016
NewsType: business